[Blog] Post about hiring and managing cracked people (#8046)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/founders/cracked-manifesto.md

Setting deadlines, creating arbitrary reporting obligations, or saying ‘if you ship X, you will get to Y title’ are examples of trying to use extrinsic motivation that you should avoid. 

**Prioritize making cracked people more cracked, not making mediocre people good**

Here is some subjective math:

- The 20% of your team who are underperforming will take up 80% of your effort 
- You may be able to get an underperformer’s output from 40% to 60% if you work hard with them
- Doubling down on a cracked person’s performance can improve their output from 80% to 90%
- It’s the 90% quality output that will delight your users, so you should focus on that, even if the absolute increase in performance is less 

**If you find yourself approving stuff for your team, fire yourself**

Asking thoughtful questions and rigorously testing ideas is cracked. Long approval processes that exist for the sake of having someone senior sign off on something in order to kick accountability up the chain is very un-cracked. If you find yourself approving stuff for your team because of your position as their manager, remove yourself from the process. 

> **Hiring is your most important job (including networking)**

Reviewer: I'd argue this + setting company context, to avoid chaos!

Author: reworked the section a bit, lmk what you think?

---
date: 2024-03-16

> title: A cracked manifesto

Reviewer 2: This headline doesn't work, imo. Lacks context.

Author: I do think that having it be slightly ambiguous is a good thing - @mariusandra's feedback was that it was interesting and made him want to click. But some slightly more explanatory alternatives:

- How to hire and manage cracked engineers
- We're only hiring cracked engineers now
- Introducing the cracked engineer

Tbh I liked having manifesto in there as it signals 'hey we're putting out an alternative way of thinking about stuff', even if it is a bit self-aggrandising. Who knows, maybe in 10 years, people will hate it with the intensity they save for the agile manifesto in 2024...

Reviewer 2: I don't feel super strongly about this and, for the newsletter at least, we can add a caption that adds some context.

Reviewer 3: Yeah, agree the headline doesn't work. 

Why you need to hire cracked engineers

And similar would work better. Also, checking, is 'cracked' used widely-enough with this sense for people to get what we mean?

Author: > Why you need to hire cracked engineers

Ah yeah ok this is better. 

> Also, checking, is 'cracked' used widely-enough with this sense for people to get what we mean?

Some people yes, some people no, but the point is it's a new intriguing concept so I think that's ok?

Reviewer 3: I think it's okay, yup. So long as nobody thinks 'cracked' is a bit weird/open to misinterpretation. It has an informal meaning of 'mentally ill.' 

I'm always down for coming up with a snappy way of referring to quite a complex idea (at WIRED, we sorta coined a name for a period of the pandemic: https://www.wired.com/story/welcome-to-the-great-reinfection/) but want to make sure we're not going to look dumb for going hard on the term 'cracked.'

Author: Yeah I think we're comfortable with the [risk here](https://posthog.slack.com/archives/C01FHN8DNN6/p1711081308199459) around misinterpretation, though I think for our audience, hopefully the [current](https://www.urbandictionary.com/define.php?term=Cracked) most popular usage will land!

author:
  - charles-cook
featuredImage: ../images/blog/transparency.jpeg
featuredImageType: full
tags:
  - Culture
  - People
crosspost:
  - Blog      
---

> We’ve become a bit obsessed with the notion of hiring cracked people at PostHog. When we say cracked, we mean things like:
> 
> - Taking extreme ownership of ideas and driving them to completion, even if others disagree with you. Some people call this founder mentality. Better yet - you bring others on the journey with you. 
> - Unwavering optimism in the face of change or new ideas. This doesn’t mean you have to agree with the change, but adopting a ‘yes and’ mentality helps new ideas get off the ground that might otherwise die in a committee somewhere. This is especially true for ideas that come from non-senior/new people. 
> - People leave a meeting or conversation with you more excited/energized than when they started. You build people and their ideas up, and are generally perceived as a very helpful person. 
> - Behaving in a completely authentic way. You don’t play politics - your work does the talking. For example, if you do marketing, talk like an actual human being. This doesn’t work in most large organizations, sadly.
> - You apply yourself to the craft of your discipline with a quasi-religious fervor. The joy comes from the craft itself, not creating shareholder value.  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We’ve become a bit obsessed with the notion of hiring cracked people at PostHog. When we say cracked, we mean things like:

- Taking extreme ownership of ideas and driving them to completion, even if others disagree with you. Some people call this founder mentality. Better still, you bring others on the journey with you.
 
- Unwavering optimism in the face of change or new ideas. This doesn’t mean you have to agree with the change, but adopting a ‘yes and’ mentality helps new ideas get off the ground that might otherwise die in a committee somewhere. This is especially true for ideas that come from non-senior/new people.
 
- People leave a meeting or conversation with you more excited/energized than when they started. You build people and their ideas up, and are generally perceived as a very helpful person.
 
- Behaving in a completely authentic way. You don’t play politics – your work does the talking. For example, if you do marketing, talk like an actual human being. This doesn’t work in most large organizations, sadly.

- You apply yourself to the craft of your discipline with a quasi-religious fervor. The joy comes from the craft itself, not creating shareholder value.  
```

> Hm, sounds pretty ripe for a toxic monoculture of tech bros doing whatever they want while the founders arbitrarily pick new pet projects based on what they last saw DHH tweet, right?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Hmm, sounds pretty ripe for a toxic monoculture of tech bros doing whatever they want while the founders arbitrarily pick new pet projects based on what they last saw DHH tweet, right?
```

No! The following are definitely not prerequisites to being cracked:

> - Fancy companies on your resume. You don’t need to have worked at a FAANG/MAMAA/shit hot SV-based company. We welcome cracked engineers who held together failing companies - we like their paranoia. 
> - Being an asshole. People need to want to work with you - saying ‘screw you, I’m doing this anyway’ is uncracked behavior if you can’t back it up. 
> - There is no number of years of experience that correlates with crackedness, in either direction. 
> - You built a side project used by 1m people. Side projects are often great signs of crackedness/ownership, but they don’t have to be commercially successful - they just have to be interesting. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Fancy companies on your resume. You don’t need to have worked at a FAANG/MAMAA/shit hot SV-based company. We welcome cracked engineers who held together failing companies – we like their paranoia.
 
- Being an asshole. People need to want to work with you – saying ‘screw you, I’m doing this anyway’ is uncracked behavior if you can’t back it up. 

- There is no number of years of experience that correlates with crackedness, in either direction. 

- You built a side project used by 1m people. Side projects are often great signs of crackedness/ownership, but they don’t have to be commercially successful – they just have to be interesting. 
```

> What’s cool about adopting this mentality is that it has noticeably increased the diversity of people applying to work with us at PostHog, as it ignores some of the traditional markers of status when it comes to job applications.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Adopting this mentality has noticeably increased the diversity of people applying to work with us at PostHog, as it ignores some of the traditional markers of status when it comes to job applications.
```

Reviewer 2: Optional, but some examples would be nice here.

> ### How to manage a cracked team

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## How to manage a cracked team
```

A lot of traditional management behavior doesn’t apply here, and can actively slow down or demotivate your team.

> **Be cracked yourself**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### 1. Be cracked yourself
```

> You need to demonstrate the behavior you want to see. Cracked people are extremely attuned to ‘do as I do’ not ‘do as I say’. This means spending a significant amount of time doing IC work. Do the stuff that arrogant senior people would find ‘boring’. Write tests. Respond to customer support queries. Go weirdly deep into some piece of analysis. Do something badly that’s not your job so you at least understand it better. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You need to demonstrate the behavior you want to see. Cracked people are extremely attuned to ‘do as I do’ not ‘do as I say’. This means spending a significant amount of time doing IC work. Do the stuff that arrogant senior people would find ‘boring’. Write tests. Respond to customer support queries. Go weirdly deep into some piece of analysis. Do something badly that’s not your job, so you at least understand it better. 
```

> **Spend most of your time generating enthusiasm**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### 2. Spend most of your time generating enthusiasm
```

It is unbelievably easy to find reasons not to do stuff at any kind of organization, including startups. Inertia is the default state of most businesses. Overcoming this inertia is mainly reliant on the enthusiasm of people to make new/cool things happen far more than their raw intelligence or competence. 

> This is why you should spend more time motivating people than trying to teach them new skills or making them do training - if they are cracked and staying motivated, they will train themselves. I don’t think I’ve yet read a blog post by someone I admire and learned from that says ‘I got good because I attended blah blah special leadership course on being great.’

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This is why you should spend more time motivating people than trying to teach them new skills or making them do training. If they are cracked and staying motivated, they will train themselves. I don’t think I’ve yet read a blog post by someone I admire and learned from that says ‘I got good because I attended blah blah special leadership course on being great.’
```

> **Get out of the way**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### 3. Get out of the way
```

> Cracked people are deeply intrinsically motivated. This means that extrinsic motivation, while still present in some form (we’ve all got to pay bills yeah), is way less important. Help cracked engineers take ownership of their own projects by encouraging them to make the decisions about what to do next. If they ask for help - ie. they actively want you to get in the way - ask questions about what they think should happen next, rather than giving them the answers. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Cracked people are deeply intrinsically motivated. This means that extrinsic motivation, while still present in some form (we’ve all got to pay bills, right?), is way less important. 

Help cracked engineers take ownership of their own projects by encouraging them to make the decisions about what to do next. If they ask for help – i.e. they actively want you to get in the way – ask questions about what they think should happen next, rather than giving them the answers. 
```

Setting deadlines, creating arbitrary reporting obligations, or saying ‘if you ship X, you will get to Y title’ are examples of trying to use extrinsic motivation that you should avoid. 

> **Prioritize making cracked people more cracked, not making mediocre people good**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### 4. Prioritize making cracked people more cracked, not making mediocre people good
```

Here is some subjective math:

- The 20% of your team who are underperforming will take up 80% of your effort 
- You may be able to get an underperformer’s output from 40% to 60% if you work hard with them
- Doubling down on a cracked person’s performance can improve their output from 80% to 90%

> - It’s the 90% quality output that will delight your users, so you should focus on that, even if the absolute increase in performance is less 

Reviewer 4: fly-by the switch from percentages being about amount of effort to quality score confused me here

would it be easier if the points on performance were "4/10" "6/10" 

i think that's what this means. it'll be a lot of work to improve an underperforming people from delivering mediocre to a slightly better mediocre, but way less effort to help a "cracked" engineer get from great to really great

??

(was reading this cos I kept hearing people say cracked and had no idea what was happening - thanks for writing it)

Author: Good point! Have updated.

> - The 20% of your team who are underperforming will take up 80% of your effort 
> - You may be able to get an underperformer’s output from 4/10 to 6/10 if you work hard with them
> - Doubling down on a cracked person’s performance can improve their output from 8/10 to 9/10
> - It’s the 9/10 quality output that will delight your users, so you should focus on that, even if the absolute increase in performance is less 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The 20% of your team who are underperforming will take up 80% of your effort. 
- You may be able to get an underperformer’s output from 4/10 to 6/10 if you work hard with them.
- Doubling down on a cracked person’s performance can improve their output from 8/10 to 9/10.
- It’s the 9/10 quality output that will delight your users, so you should focus on that, even if the absolute increase in performance is less. 
```

> **If you find yourself approving stuff for your team, fire yourself**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### 5. If you find yourself approving stuff for your team, fire yourself
```

Asking thoughtful questions and rigorously testing ideas is cracked. Long approval processes that exist for the sake of having someone senior sign off on something in order to kick accountability up the chain is very un-cracked. If you find yourself approving stuff for your team because of your position as their manager, remove yourself from the process. 

> **Hiring and setting context are your two most important jobs**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### 6.Hiring and setting context are your two most important jobs
```

The number one thing you can do to motivate cracked people? Find them more cracked people to work with! 

> And conversely, the number one thing you can do to demotivate them is to make them worked with uncracked people. (Yes there are many other very obvious ways you can demotivate like creating a shitty culture, making people burnout with unrealistic demands, pivoting aggressively every week for no reason, but I’m going to assume you at least have some semblance of managerial logic if you’ve got this far through the article). 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion 
Conversely, the number one thing you can do to demotivate them is to make them worked with uncracked people. (Yes there are many other very obvious ways you can demotivate, like creating a shitty culture, making people burnout with unrealistic demands, pivoting aggressively every week for no reason, but I’m going to assume you at least have some semblance of managerial logic if you’ve got this far through the article.) 
```

> A close number two is setting the right context for them to do their best work. This means making sure that your company or team's vision is super clearly articulated and understood by everyone in the first place, and then helping them pick between competing priorities when they are not sure what to do, or if the answer isn't obvious. You need to try really hard to make sure that you don't use 'setting context' as a euphemism for 'work on the stuff I care about as a manager' - they are not the same thing!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A close number two is setting the right context for them to do their best work. This means making sure that your company or team's vision is super clearly articulated and understood by everyone in the first place, and then helping them pick between competing priorities when they are not sure what to do, or if the answer isn't obvious. You need to try really hard to make sure that you don't use 'setting context' as a euphemism for 'work on the stuff I care about as a manager' – they are not the same thing!
```

---
date: 2024-04-17

> title: Why you need to hire cracked engineers

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
title: Hiring cracked engineers
```

Reviewer 2: I don't feel super strongly about this, but always feel the simpler the headline, the better it is – especially if the goal is "get on HN."

author:
  - charles-cook
featuredImage: https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/v1713344206/posthog.com/contents/blog/cracked_engineer_blog.jpg
tags:
  - Culture
  - People
crosspost:
  - Blog      
---

We’ve become a bit obsessed with the notion of hiring cracked engineers at PostHog. When we say cracked, we mean things like:

> - Taking extreme ownership of ideas and driving them to completion, even if others disagree with you. Some people call this founder mentality. Better still, you bring others on the journey with you.
>  
> - Unwavering optimism in the face of change or new ideas. This doesn’t mean you have to agree with the change, but adopting a ‘yes and’ mentality helps new ideas get off the ground that might otherwise die in a committee somewhere. This is especially true for ideas that come from non-senior or new people.
>  
> - People leave a meeting or conversation with you more excited/energized than when they started. You build people and their ideas up, and are generally perceived as a very helpful person.
>  
> - Behaving in a completely authentic way. You don’t play politics – your work does the talking. For example, if you do marketing, talk like an actual human being. This doesn’t work in most large organizations, sadly.
> 
> - You apply yourself to the craft of your discipline with a quasi-religious fervor. The joy comes from the craft itself, not creating shareholder value.  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Taking extreme ownership of ideas** and driving them to completion, even if others disagree with you. Some people call this founder mentality. Better still, you bring others on the journey with you.
 
- **Unwavering optimism** in the face of change or new ideas. This doesn’t mean you have to agree with the change, but adopting a ‘yes and’ mentality helps new ideas get off the ground that might otherwise die in a committee somewhere. This is especially true for ideas that come from non-senior or new people.
 
- **You make people feel more excited and energized** after a meeting or conversation with you. You build people and their ideas up, and are generally perceived as a very helpful person.
 
- **Behaving in a completely authentic way**. You don’t play politics – your work does the talking. For example, if you do marketing, talk like an actual human being. This doesn’t work in most large organizations, sadly.

- **You apply yourself to the craft** of your discipline with a quasi-religious fervor. The joy comes from the craft itself, not creating shareholder value.  
```

Hmm, sounds pretty ripe for a toxic monoculture of tech bros doing whatever they want while the founders arbitrarily pick new pet projects based on what they last saw DHH tweet, right?

No! The following are definitely not prerequisites to being cracked:

> - Fancy companies on your resume. You don’t need to have worked at a FAANG/MAMAA/shit-hot SV-based company. We welcome cracked engineers who held together failing companies – we like their paranoia.
>  
> - Being an asshole. People need to want to work with you – saying ‘screw you, I’m doing this anyway’ is uncracked behavior if you can’t back it up. 
> 
> - There is no number of years of experience that correlates with crackedness, in either direction. 
> 
> - You built a side project used by one million people. Side projects are often great signs of crackedness/ownership, but they don’t have to be commercially successful – they just have to be interesting. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Fancy companies on your resume.** You don’t need to have worked at a FAANG/MAMAA/shit-hot SV-based company. We welcome cracked engineers who held together failing companies – we like their paranoia.
 
- **Being an asshole.** People need to want to work with you – saying ‘screw you, I’m doing this anyway’ is uncracked behavior if you can’t back it up. 

- **How experienced you are.** There is no number of years of experience that correlates with crackedness, in either direction. 

- **You built a side project used by one million people.&& Side projects are often great signs of crackedness/ownership, but they don’t have to be commercially successful – they just have to be interesting. 
```

This is why you should spend more time motivating people than trying to teach them new skills or making them do training. If they are cracked and motivated, they will train themselves. I don’t think I’ve yet read a blog post by someone I admire and learned from that says ‘I got good because I attended blah blah special leadership course on being great.’

### 3. Get out of the way

Cracked people are deeply intrinsically motivated. This means that extrinsic motivation, while still present in some form (we’ve all got to pay bills yeah), is way less important. 

Help cracked engineers take ownership of their own projects by encouraging them to make the decisions about what to do next. If they ask for help – i.e. they actively want you to get in the way – ask questions about what they think should happen next, rather than giving them the answers. 

Setting deadlines, creating arbitrary reporting obligations, or saying ‘if you ship X, you will get to Y title’ are examples of trying to use extrinsic motivation that you should avoid. 

### 4. Prioritize making cracked people more cracked, not making mediocre people good

Here is some subjective math:

> - The 20% of your team who are underperforming will take up 80% of your effort. 
> - You may be able to get an underperformer’s output from 4/10 to 6/10 if you work hard with them.
> - Doubling down on a cracked person’s performance can improve their output from 8/10 to 9/10.
> - It’s the 9/10 quality output that will delight your users, so you should focus on that, even if the absolute increase in performance is less. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The 20% of your team who are underperforming will take up 80% of your effort.
 
- You may be able to get an underperformer’s output from 4/10 to 6/10 if you work hard with them.

- Doubling down on a cracked person’s performance can improve their output from 8/10 to 9/10.

- It’s the 9/10 quality output that will delight your users, so you should focus on that, even if the absolute increase in performance is less. 
```

### 5. If you find yourself approving stuff for your team, fire yourself

Asking thoughtful questions and rigorously testing ideas is cracked. Long approval processes that exist for the sake of having someone senior sign off on something in order to kick accountability up the chain is very un-cracked. If you find yourself approving stuff for your team because of your position as their manager, remove yourself from the process. 

### 6.Hiring and setting context are your two most important jobs

The number one thing you can do to motivate cracked people? Find them more cracked people to work with! 

> Conversely, the number one thing you can do to demotivate them is to make them worked with uncracked people. (Yes there are many other very obvious ways you can demotivate, like creating a shitty culture, making people burnout with unrealistic demands, pivoting aggressively every week for no reason, but I’m going to assume you at least have some semblance of managerial logic if you’ve read this far.) 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Conversely, the number one thing you can do to demotivate them is to make them work with uncracked people. (Yes, there are many other very obvious ways you can demotivate, like creating a shitty culture, making people burnout with unrealistic demands, pivoting aggressively every week for no reason, but I’m going to assume you at least have some semblance of managerial logic if you’ve read this far.) 
```

---
date: 2024-03-16
title: A cracked manifesto
author:
  - charles-cook
featuredImage: ../images/blog/transparency.jpeg
featuredImageType: full
tags:
  - Culture
  - People
crosspost:
  - Blog      
---

We’ve become a bit obsessed with the notion of hiring cracked people at PostHog. When we say cracked, we mean things like:

- Taking extreme ownership of ideas and driving them to completion, even if others disagree with you. Some people call this founder mentality. Better still, you bring others on the journey with you.
 

> - Unwavering optimism in the face of change or new ideas. This doesn’t mean you have to agree with the change, but adopting a ‘yes and’ mentality helps new ideas get off the ground that might otherwise die in a committee somewhere. This is especially true for ideas that come from non-senior/new people.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Unwavering optimism in the face of change or new ideas. This doesn’t mean you have to agree with the change, but adopting a ‘yes and’ mentality helps new ideas get off the ground that might otherwise die in a committee somewhere. This is especially true for ideas that come from non-senior or new people.
```

 
- People leave a meeting or conversation with you more excited/energized than when they started. You build people and their ideas up, and are generally perceived as a very helpful person.
 
- Behaving in a completely authentic way. You don’t play politics – your work does the talking. For example, if you do marketing, talk like an actual human being. This doesn’t work in most large organizations, sadly.

- You apply yourself to the craft of your discipline with a quasi-religious fervor. The joy comes from the craft itself, not creating shareholder value.  

Hmm, sounds pretty ripe for a toxic monoculture of tech bros doing whatever they want while the founders arbitrarily pick new pet projects based on what they last saw DHH tweet, right?

No! The following are definitely not prerequisites to being cracked:

> - Fancy companies on your resume. You don’t need to have worked at a FAANG/MAMAA/shit hot SV-based company. We welcome cracked engineers who held together failing companies – we like their paranoia.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Fancy companies on your resume. You don’t need to have worked at a FAANG/MAMAA/shit-hot SV-based company. We welcome cracked engineers who held together failing companies – we like their paranoia.
```

 
- Being an asshole. People need to want to work with you – saying ‘screw you, I’m doing this anyway’ is uncracked behavior if you can’t back it up. 

- There is no number of years of experience that correlates with crackedness, in either direction. 

> - You built a side project used by 1m people. Side projects are often great signs of crackedness/ownership, but they don’t have to be commercially successful – they just have to be interesting. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- You built a side project used by one million people. Side projects are often great signs of crackedness/ownership, but they don’t have to be commercially successful – they just have to be interesting. 
```

Adopting this mentality has noticeably increased the diversity of people applying to work with us at PostHog, as it ignores some of the traditional markers of status when it comes to job applications.

## How to manage a cracked team

A lot of traditional management behavior doesn’t apply here, and can actively slow down or demotivate your team.

### 1. Be cracked yourself

You need to demonstrate the behavior you want to see. Cracked people are extremely attuned to ‘do as I do’ not ‘do as I say’. This means spending a significant amount of time doing IC work. Do the stuff that arrogant senior people would find ‘boring’. Write tests. Respond to customer support queries. Go weirdly deep into some piece of analysis. Do something badly that’s not your job, so you at least understand it better. 

### 2. Spend most of your time generating enthusiasm

> It is unbelievably easy to find reasons not to do stuff at any kind of organization, including startups. Inertia is the default state of most businesses. Overcoming this inertia is mainly reliant on the enthusiasm of people to make new/cool things happen far more than their raw intelligence or competence. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
It is unbelievably easy to find reasons not to do stuff at any kind of organization, including startups. Inertia is the default state of most businesses. Overcoming this inertia is mainly reliant on the enthusiasm of people to make new and cool things happen, and is far more important than their raw intelligence or competence. 
```

> This is why you should spend more time motivating people than trying to teach them new skills or making them do training. If they are cracked and staying motivated, they will train themselves. I don’t think I’ve yet read a blog post by someone I admire and learned from that says ‘I got good because I attended blah blah special leadership course on being great.’

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This is why you should spend more time motivating people than trying to teach them new skills or making them do training. If they are cracked and motivated, they will train themselves. I don’t think I’ve yet read a blog post by someone I admire and learned from that says ‘I got good because I attended blah blah special leadership course on being great.’
```

### 3. Get out of the way

> Cracked people are deeply intrinsically motivated. This means that extrinsic motivation, while still present in some form (we’ve all got to pay bills yeah), is way less important. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Cracked people are deeply, intrinsically motivated. This means that extrinsic motivation, while still present in some form (we’ve all got to pay bills), is way less important. 
```

Author: Going to respectfully decline this one because it is my 'personality'

### 4. Prioritize making cracked people more cracked, not making mediocre people good

Here is some subjective math:

- The 20% of your team who are underperforming will take up 80% of your effort. 
- You may be able to get an underperformer’s output from 4/10 to 6/10 if you work hard with them.
- Doubling down on a cracked person’s performance can improve their output from 8/10 to 9/10.
- It’s the 9/10 quality output that will delight your users, so you should focus on that, even if the absolute increase in performance is less. 

### 5. If you find yourself approving stuff for your team, fire yourself

Asking thoughtful questions and rigorously testing ideas is cracked. Long approval processes that exist for the sake of having someone senior sign off on something in order to kick accountability up the chain is very un-cracked. If you find yourself approving stuff for your team because of your position as their manager, remove yourself from the process. 

### 6.Hiring and setting context are your two most important jobs

The number one thing you can do to motivate cracked people? Find them more cracked people to work with! 

> Conversely, the number one thing you can do to demotivate them is to make them worked with uncracked people. (Yes there are many other very obvious ways you can demotivate, like creating a shitty culture, making people burnout with unrealistic demands, pivoting aggressively every week for no reason, but I’m going to assume you at least have some semblance of managerial logic if you’ve got this far through the article.) 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Conversely, the number one thing you can do to demotivate them is to make them worked with uncracked people. (Yes there are many other very obvious ways you can demotivate, like creating a shitty culture, making people burnout with unrealistic demands, pivoting aggressively every week for no reason, but I’m going to assume you at least have some semblance of managerial logic if you’ve read this far.) 
```
